SATURDAY, DECEMBER 21st,
AMERICAN MILITARY AIRCRAFT COM
UNDER FIRE IN AFRICA
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
CHILDREN EXPOSED TO SEXUAL
IMAGES AND TREATED AS SEXUAL
OBJECTS.
HOW ONE COUNTRY IS TRYING TO
PROTECT THEM
>> OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT OBJECT
OF BEAUTY.
AND NOT OBJECT OF SEDUCTION.
>>> AND, ON BROADWAY, MAKING
THEATER MORE ACCESSIBLE.
NEXT, ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND".
>> GOOD EVENING.
U.S. MILITARY AIRCRAFT TRYING TO
RESCUE AMERICANS STRANDED IN
SOUTH SUDAN CAME UNDER FIR
TODAY AND HAD TO TURN BACK AND
FLY TO UGANDA.
OFFICIALS SAY FOUR AMERICANS
WERE WOUNDED, ONE SERIOUSLY.
THOUSANDS OF CITIZENS HAVE FLE
IN THE WAKE OF FIGHTING BETWEE
GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND REBELS
THIS WEEK PRESIDENT OBAMA SENT
U.S. TROOPS INTO SOUTH SUDAN T
HELP PROTECT THE U.S. EMBASSY.
OTHER WESTERN COUNTRIES ARE ALSO
EVACUATING THEIR PERSONNEL
CHINA SAID TODAY, IT HAD WHAT IT
CALLED STRONG CONCERNS ABOUT
JAPAN'S DECISION TO BOOS
MILITARY SPENDING.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, JAPAN
ANNOUNCED A 2.6% INCREASE OVER
FIVE YEARS
JAPAN IS USING THE MONEY FOR
EARLY WARNING PLANES, AIRCRAFT
THAT CARRY TROOPS AND BEAC
ASSAULT VEHICLES
JAPAN SAYS IT'S ONLY RESPONDIN
TO A CHINESE MILITARY BUILD-UP
THE TWO COUNTRIES ARE INVOLVED
IN A DISPUTE OVER ISLANDS IN THE
EAST CHINA SEA THAT BOTH CLAIM
>>> IN PAKISTAN, A MEDIC HAS
DIED AFTER THE LATEST ATTACK O
A POLIO VACCINE CENTER
ACCORDING TO THE "ASSOCIATED
PRESS," PAKISTAN IS ONE OF ONL
THREE COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD
WHERE THE POLIO VIRUS IS STILL
ENDEMIC.
ISLAMIC MILITANTS CLAIM TH
VACCINATION PROGRAMS ARE A COVER
FOR WESTERN SPY OPERATIONS
>>> BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, POLICE
IN SOUTHERN COLORADO SAY THE
FOILED ANOTHER POSSIBLE SCHOOL
SHOOTING
AUTHORITIES IN THE TOWN OF
TRINIDAD ARRESTED TWO STUDENTS
ONE 15, THE OTHER 16
THEY SAID THE PAIR PLANNED T
CARRY OUT THE ATTACK AFTER
WINTER BREAK
THE 15-YEAR-OLD REPORTEDLY HAD
BEEN BULLIED AND IS SAID TO HAVE
IDOLIZED THE TEENAGERS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MASS
SHOOTING AT COLUMBINE.
>>> IN NEIGHBORING UTAH,
MARRIAGE LICENSES HAVE BEE
ISSUED TO MORE THAN 100 GA
COUPLES.
AFTER A FEDERAL JUDGE STRUCK
DOWN THAT STATE'S BAN ON
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
YESTERDAY'S RULING SAID THE LA
VIOLATED THE CONSTITUTIONA
RIGHTS OF GAY COUPLES TO DUE
PROCESS AND EQUAL PROTECTION
UNDER THE LAW.
>>> THE STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
OFFICE SAID IT WILL SEEK TO STAY
THE JUDGE'S ORDER WHILE IT
APPEALS THE COURT DECISION
260 MILES UP IN SPACE TODAY, TWO
AMERICAN ASTRONAUTS VENTURED OUT
OF THE ORBITING INTERNATIONA
SPACE STATION TO REPAIR A FAULTY
PUMP
NASA SAID THE FIVE AND A
HALF-HOUR MISSION WENT SO WELL
THAT ONLY ONE MORE SPACE WAL
MIGHT BE NEEDED TO FINISH TH
JOB.
TWO MORE HAVE BEEN PLANNED
>>> SINCE THE PUMP BROKE TEN
DAYS AGO, THE SIX ASTRONAUTS O
BOARD HAVE BEEN LIVING WITH AL
NONESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT TURNE
OFF, SEVERELY SLOWING THEI
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
>>> AND TODAY IS THE 25t
ANNIVERSARY OF THE BOMBING O
PAN AM 103 OVER LOCKERBIE,
SCOTLAND, AN ACT THAT RESULTED
IN THE DEATH OF 270 PEOPLE
A LIBYAN INTELLIGENCE AGENT WA
CONVICTED OF THE CRIME
>>> TODAY, THE VICTIMS, MANY O
THEM COLLEGE STUDENTS, FLYIN
HOME FOR CHRISTMAS, WERE
REMEMBERED AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL
CEMETERY AND IN LOCKERBIE, WHERE
AMERICAN JANE SCHULTZ PAID
TRIBUTE TO HER LATE SON.
>> I WANTED TO COME HERE, NO
ONLY TO HONOR THOMAS, BUT TH
OTHER 269 VICTIMS AND I WANTED
TO STAND IN THE PLACE WHERE MY
SON TOOK HIS LAST BREATH
>> WE TURN NOW TO A SITUATIO
GETTING VERY LITTLE ATTENTION --
THE DANGERS FACING JOURNALISTS
AROUND THE WORLD
JUST YESTERDAY, A FREELANC
SYRIAN PHOTOGRAPHER WORKING FO
"REUTERS" WAS KILLED COVERIN
THE CIVIL WAR THERE.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE DANGERS O
CONFLICT REPORTING, AND TH
IMPRISONMENT OF JOURNALISTS, W
ARE JOINED BY ROBERT MAHONEY
THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE
COMMITTEE TO PROTECT
JOURNALISTS.
ROBERT, THANK YOU SO MUCH FO
JOINING US
EVERY YEAR YOU FOLKS TAKE
SNAPSHOT IN THE MONTH OF
DECEMBER, A PICTURE OF MAN
THINGS, INCLUDING THE NUMBER O
JOURNALISTS IN PRISON AT THA
MOMENT
WHAT DOES THE PICTURE TELL YOU
THIS YEAR?
>> WELL THIS YEAR, IT'S TH
SECOND WORST YEAR ON RECORD WITH
MORE THAN 200 JOURNALISTS IN
JAIL
SO GOVERNMENTS ARE CONTINUING TO
USE IMPRISONMENT AS A WAY OF
CENSORING JOURNALISTS AN
SILENCING CRITICS.
>> I REMEMBER THE WORST YEAR WAS
LAST YEAR, CORRECT
>> YES, A FEW JOURNALISTS HAVE
BEEN RELEASED, AND THAT'S DUE IN
PART TO THE ADVOCACY OF GROUPS
LIKE THE COMMITTEE TO PROTEC
JOURNALISTS AND OTHE
JOURNALISTS PUTTING PRESSURE O
GOVERNMENTS, BUT THE TREND I
STILL FOR A VERY HIGH.
>> ANY TIME THERE'S A LIST, WH
IS NUMBER ONE ON THE LIST, A
IMPRISONING THE MOST
AND WHY DO YOU THINK THAT IS
>> WELL, THE TOP JOURNAL O
JOURNALISTS IS TURKEY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SURPRISED BY
THAT, TURKEY IS A DEMOCRACY,
MEMBER OF NATO, WANTS TO JOI
THE EUROPEAN UNION
BUT TURKEY HAS A GOVERNMEN
WHICH DOES NOT WANT TO B
CRITICIZED INTERNALLY.
AND SO IT USES JAILING O
JOURNALISTS TO SILENCE PEOPLE.
TO INTIMIDATE THEM
>> I REMEMBER LAST YEAR, CHINA
I BELIEVE AND IRAN WERE ALSO I
THE TOP THREE.
HOW DO THEY FARE THIS YEAR
>> THEY'RE STILL UP THERE.
THEY'RE STILL IN THE TOP THREE
AND BETWEEN THEM, THOSE THRE
COUNTRIES ACCOUNT FOR NEARLY
HALF OF THE TOTAL.
SO THERE'S A CLEAR PATTERN HER
OF AUTHORITY TEARIAN COUNTRIES
THAT WANT TO PUT JOURNALISTS
BEHIND BARS, RATHER THAN DEA
WITH THE PROBLEMS THAT THE
JOURNALISTS ARE REPORTING ON
>> ESPECIALLY IN CHINA, WE HEA
A NUMBER OF THINGS THESE DAYS.
WHAT TYPE OF REPORTING IS TH
CHINESE GOVERNMENT TARGETING
>> OF CHINESE JOURNALISTS, IT'
THOSE JOURNALISTS THAT ARE
CRITICIZING THE GOVERNMENT
CRITICIZING THE COMMUNIST PARTY,
DOING INVESTIGATIVE REPORTIN
AND YOUR COVERING CRUX OR BA
GOVERNMENT
THOSE ARE THE KINDS OF STORIES
THAT MANY CHINESE OFFICIAL
DON'T WANT PUBLISHED
AND THE PICTURE IS VERY MIXED.
THERE ARE PARTS OF CHINA WHERE
THERE ARE SOME GOOD JOURNALIST
GETTING OUT GOOD INFORMATION
AND THERE ARE OTHER PARTS OF
CHINA WHERE THINGS ARE VER
REPRESSIVE
>> WHAT ABOUT AMERICAN REPORTERS
THAT ARE EITHER MISSING OR
SOMEHOW BEING THREATENED
OVERSEAS
>> WELL, THE WORST PLACE TO BE A
JOURNALIST AT THE MOMENT I
SYRIA.
THAT'S BEEN THE CASE FOR THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS BECAUSE O
THE CONFLICT
AND THERE ARE A NUMBER O
AMERICAN JOURNALISTS WHO HAV
BEEN TAKEN HOSTAGE
SOME OF THEM FOR THE LAST YEAR
AND A HALF
WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO NEWS ABOUT
THEM
WE KNOW THAT THEY'RE ALIVE, OR
WE THINK WE KNOW THAT THEY'R
ALIVE.
BUT THIS IS A TERRIBLY
DISTRESSING SITUATION FOR THEI
FAMILIES AND FRIENDS
>> ROBERT MAHONEY, THE COMMITTEE
TO PROTECT JOURNALISTS, THANKS
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US
>>> THANK YOU.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT -- IF YOUR CHILDREN OR
GRANDCHILDREN GO ONLINE OR WATCH
MUSIC VIDEOS OR CERTAI
TELEVISION PROGRAMS, THEY AR
ROUTINELY BOMBARDED WITH
EXPLICIT SEXUAL IMAGES
IMAGES THAT MIGHT SHOCK YOU.
THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED TO ON
MOTHER, A GOVERNMENT OFFICIA
WHO SET OUT TO DO SOMETHIN
ABOUT IT
NOW, HER EFFORTS ARE BEING
CRITICIZED, BY SOME OF THE VER
PEOPLE SHE'S TRYING TO PROTECT
AND SURPRISINGLY, THE STORY IS
PLAYING OUT IN A COUNTRY WIDEL
KNOWN FOR ITS LIBERAL ATTITUDE
ABOUT SEX.
FRANCE
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM
BRANGHAM HAS OUR REPORT FROM
PARIS.
>> Reporter: IN THE PUBLIC
IMAGINATION, FRANCE IS RENOWNE
FOR MANY THINGS.
ITS CUISINE, ITS CULTURE, AS
WELL AS A VERY OPEN EMBRACE OF
FEMALE BEAUTY.
YOU CAN'T WALK A CITY BLOCK IN
PARIS WITHOUT SEEING THE
SCANTILY-CLAD MODELS SHOWCASIN
FRANCE'S HIGH FASHION INDUSTRY
THIS IS THE NATION THAT GAVE U
BRIDGET BARDOT AND WELCOME
FORMER SUPERMODEL CARLA BRUNEI
AS ITS FIRST LADY.
AFTER HER MANY YEARS MODELIN
WITH VERY LITTLE OR NOTHING AT
ALL ON
GIVEN ALL THAT IT'S MAYBE A BI
SURPRISING THAT A CONTROVERS
HAS ERUPTED IN FRANCE OVER WHA
SOME ARGUE IS TH
HYPERSEXUALIZATION OF YOUN
GIRLS.
GIRLS LIKE NINE-YEAR-OLD ANAIS
SHE REGULARLY COMPETE IN WHA
ARE CALLED MINI MISS PAGEANTS.
>> Translator: THIS WAS HE
FIRST PAGEANT.
SHE WAS SIX AND A HALF YEARS
OLD.
>> Reporter: SHE LIVES WITH HE
FAMILY IN A SUBURB OF PARIS.
HER MOM SHOWED ME PHOTOS O
ANAIS COMPETING.
>> Translator: WHEN ANAIS COME
OUT ON STAGE, PEOPLE STAND U
AND APPLAUD HER.
I MEAN OF COURSE THERE'S THI
FEELING THIS PRIDE
>> Reporter: IN THE PAGEANTS
THE GIRLS WEAR FORMAL DRESSES,
NO HEAVY MAKEUP, NO HIGH HEELS
THEY WALK ON STAGE, SAY A FE
WORDS, AND A WINNER IS PICKE
FOR HER OVERALL POISE AN
PRESENTATION
MARTINE MAKES MOST OF TH
DRESSES ANAIS WEARS.
>> Translator: THIS ONE IS FOR
HER NEXT COMPETITION
>> Reporter: SHE LOVES THAT TH
PAGEANTS BRING HER CLOSER TO HER
DAUGHTER AND THINKS THE AWARDS
HER DAUGHTER HAS WON GIVE HER
SENSE OF ACCOMPLISHMENT.
>> Translator: USUALLY WE ARRIVE
AND FIRST WE EAT TOGETHER.
THEN WE GET DRESSED.
AFTER THAT, THE PAGEANT STARTS
WITH THE YOUNG GIRLS GOING
FIRST.
MY FAVORITE PART IS WHEN I'M O
STAGE.
AND WHEN I PUT ON MY DRESS
>> Reporter: BUT HER FAVORIT
ACTIVITY MIGHT BE THREATENED
BECAUSE OF HA HAPPENED WIT
ANOTHER YOUNG FRENCH GIRL.
BACK IN 2010, THIS PHOTO SPREA
APPEARED IN FRENCH "VOGUE"
MAGAZINE
THE MODEL HERE IS TEN YEARS OLD.
AT FIRST, NO ONE IN FRANCE PAI
MUCH ATTENTION
BUT WOMEN'S GROUPS IN THE U.S.
WERE OUTRAGED.
AND THEY TOOK THEIR CASE PUBLIC.
THIS, WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> I THINK THAT I'M SEEING A
VERY YOUNG GIRL BEIN
SEXUALIZED
>> WHEN YOU SAW THOS
PHOTOGRAPHS, WHAT WAS YOUR
REACTION
>> YOU ALWAYS THINK OF ART
SO YOU THINK THIS IS ONL
CREATION, THIS IS ARTISTIC
SO YOU DON'T SEE THE PROBLEM
>> CHANTAL IS A SENATOR IN THE
FRENCH LEGISLATURE AND A MEMBE
OF THE CENTER RIGHT PARTY.
SHE SAID THE FASHION INDUSTR
GETS A LOT OF LEEWAY IN FRANCE
BUT THE AMERICAN REACTION IN
THESE PHOTOS MADE HER AND OTHERS
TAKE A SECOND LOOK
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE PHOTO,
THE PICTURES, YOU SAY YES, THI
IS A PROBLEM
HOW CAN WE USE CHILDREN JUST T
SELL PRODUCTS?
HOW CAN WE USE CHILDREN AS
SEXUALIZED PEOPLE?
>> THE "VOGUE" CONTROVERSY GOT
SO BIG IN FRANCE THAT TH
MINISTER FOR FAMILY AFFAIR
ASKED THE SENATOR TO INVESTIGATE
WHETHER THERE WAS A PROBLEM OF
FRENCH CHILDREN BECOMING
HYPERSEXUALIZED.
AND IF SO, WHAT DO DO ABOUT IT
>> WHEN OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT
WITH THEIR PARENTS WHAT DO THE
SEE?
THEY SEE CARTOONS, THEY SEE TV
SHOW, WHICH ARE ALL BASED ON
HYPERSEXUALIZATION
>> SHE IS A MOTHER OF THRE
KIDS
AND SHE WAS SURPRISED TO
DISCOVER THAT MILLIONS OF KIDS
IN FRANCE JUST LIKE IN THE U.S.,
ROUTINELY SEE IMAGES THAT PB
TYPICALLY WOULDN'T PUT ON TH
AIR.
IMAGES OF YOUNG WOMEN PORTRAYE
IN HIGHLY SEXUAL WAYS.
♪♪
>> ONLINE, ON TV, IN MUSIC
VIDEOS
SHE EVEN FOUND SEXUALIZED IMAGES
INFILTRATING TOYS AND CARTOONS
>> I WAS SURPRISED BY THE THINGS
MY OWN CHILDREN COULD SEE.
AND I WAS SURPRISED TO
UNDERSTAND WHY
HYPERSEXUALIZATION COULD BE
PROBLEM FOR THEM
>> AT THE END OF HER
INVESTIGATION, SHE ISSUED THIS
REPORT
IT ARGUED THAT THE LEVEL O
SEXUALIZED UNREALISTIC BOD
IMAGES WAS SO PERFECTS VASIVE IN
FRENCH SOCIETY, THAT IT AMOUNTED
TO A QUOTE FORM OF VIOLENC
AGAINST KIDS, ONE THAT NOT ONL
OBJECTIFIES GIRLS, BUT CAUSE
THEM TO JUDGE THEMSELVES
HARSHLY.
FOR EXAMPLE, ACCORDING TO TH
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION, 27%
OF 11-YEAR-OLD EUROPEAN GIRL
THINK THEY'RE TOO FAT THAT
PERCENTAGE RISES TO 40% FO
15-YEAR-OLDS B. A QUARTER OF
THOSE GIRLS SAY THEY'RE NO
DIETING.
SO HER REPORT COMES OUT AND IT
CONTAINS 12 DIFFEREN
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR HOW TO
PROTECT KIDS
IT WOULD PROHIBIT COMPANIES FROM
USING CHILDREN AS THEIR SPOKES
MODELS
IT WOULD CREATE A WEBSITE THAT
WOULD NAME AND SHAME COMPANIES
THAT DON'T GO ALONG.
AND IT WOULD CREATE AN
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM FOR PARENT
AND IT PROPOSED BANNING THOS
CHILDHOOD BEAUTY PAGEANTS,
SAYING THEY OFFER QUOTE
DEGRADED OR TARNISHED IMAGE OF
GIRLS.
THE SENATOR, WHO IS NOT ONLY A
SENATOR, BUT A 12-TIME KARAT
CHAMPION AND A FORMER NATIONAL
MINISTER FOR SPORTS SAYS SHE'S
NOT AGAINST COMPETITIONS FOR
KIDS
SHE JUST OBJECTS TO ONES THA
PUT A PREMIUM ON THEIR LOOKS
>> THIS WAS JUST ONE
RECOMMENDATION, TO BAN BEAUT
PAGEANTS, SO THAT THE SOCIET
WILL GIVE A VERY CLEAR MESSAGE
TO MEDIAS, TO COMPANIES, THA
OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT OBJECT OF
BEAUTY
AND ARE NOT OBJECT OF SEDUCTION.
AND THAT WE AGREE ON ANY OTHER
KIND OF COMPETITIONS, BASED ON
TALENTS AS SINGING, AS DANCING
>> BUT NOT ONLY BASED ON YOU
PHYSICAL APPEARANCE.
>> 9-YEAR-OLD ANAIS WAS NO
HAPPY WHEN SHE HEARD ABOUT THE
PROPOSED BAN
SHE THINKS THE SENATOR CONFUSING
THE PAGEANTS SHE DOES, WITH TH
KIND THAT HAPPEN IN THE U.S.
LIKE THOSE SEEN IN TLC'S HIT
SHOW "TODDLERS IN TIARAS."
>> I'M SO PROUD OF HER, SHE'S SO
BEAUTIFUL.
>> Translator: THERE IS THIS
WOMAN, I'M NOT SURE WHAT HER
NAME IS.
BUT SHE WANTS TO FORBID THE MINI
MISS PAGEANTS, BECAUSE SHE
BELIEVES IT'S JUST LIKE IN THE
U.S.
WE PUT ON MAKEUP AND SHOW OU
BUTTS AND SHOW OUR MOUTH AND OUR
TEETH AND OUR BREASTS.
>> HER MOM, MARTINE, AGREES THAT
KIDS ARE OFTEN EXPOSED TO TO
MUCH, TOO SOON
SHE SAYS SHE AND HER HUSBAND
PHILIPPE WORK VERY HARD TO
PROTECT THEIR KIDS FROM TH
OUTSIDE WORLD.
BUT SHE DOESN'T THINK PAJTSS ARE
PART OF THE PROBLEM, AND SHE'S
FURIOUS AT THE SENATOR'S
SUGGESTION THAT BY LETTING ANAIS
COMPETE SHE'S SOMEHOW HARMIN
HER DAUGHTER
>> Translator: I WAS ANGRY FOR
SURE
BECAUSE ESSENTIALLY WHAT SHE'S
SAYING IS, WE'RE DUMB AND WE
CAN'T TAKE CARE OF OUR KIDS.
WE DON'T LET OUR KIDS WEAR
ANYTHING INDECENT.
SHE CAN COME AND HAVE A LOOK
I WANT HER TO COME AND SEE
OUR DAUGHTERS ARE NOT BARBIES.
>> THE PARENTS WHO SUPPORT THE
PAGEANTS ARGUE IT'S NOT NEARLY
AS EXTREME AS WHAT WE SEE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
IT'S NOT SO MUCH MAKEUP, HIG
HEELS.
THEY THINK OF IT AS A HARMLESS
SIMPLE COMPETITION
>> IF THE AIM OF THE COMPETITION
IS STILL THE SAME, WITH OR
WITHOUT MAKEUP THE ONLY WAY YO
CAN TELL WHETHER THIS IS THE
WINNER OR THIS IS NOT TH
WINNER, IS TO MAKE A COMPARISO
BETWEEN YOUNG GIRLS AND BETWEE
THEIR PHYSICAL APPEARANCE.
IT'S THE SAME ISSUE IN IT.
THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE WIT
MAKEUP OR NO MAKEUP.
>> SOCIALIST MICHELLE STUDIE
DEVELOPMENT.
HE SAYS YES, SEXUALIZATION I
REAL AND IT CAN ROB KIDS O
THEIR CHILDHOOD.
BUT HE'S NOT CONVINCED THA
PAGEANTS, AT LEAST AS PRACTICE
IN FRANCE, ARE THAT HARMFUL.
HE THINKS THEY'RE SIMPLY YOUNG
GIRLS SHOWING PRIDE IN THEIR
FEMININITY
>> Translator: FOR SOME PEOPLE
LIKE JUANOT, THE MOMENT THIS
FEMININITY IS EXAGGERATED, IT'
A SIGN THAT WE'RE RETURNING TO
MALE DOMINATION OVER FEMALES I
SOCIETY.
WITH WOMEN AS OBJECT IN SOCIETY.
BUT LITTLE GIRLS DON'T SEE
THEMSELVES AS OBJECTS.
THEY DON'T SEE THEMSELVES AS
UNEQUAL TO BOYS.
THEY ARE JUST PROUD TO B
FEMININE
>> BUT JUANOT ARGUES THA
PAGEANTS ARE JUST THE BEGINNIN
OF A PROCESS, WHERE YOUNG GIRL
ARE OBJECTIFIED BY SOCIETY AND
OFTEN TURN THAT OBJECTIFICATIO
INWARDS.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING
THAT IS SO BROAD IN THE CULTURE,
AFFECTING EVERYTHING FRO
PARENTS TO EDUCATION TO TH
MEDIA TO OUR VALUES -- DO YO
THINK THAT GOING AFTER PAGEANT
IS THE BEST APPROACH TO DEALIN
WITH THIS ENORMOUS ISSUE
>> NO.
THE BAN OF BEAUTY PAGEANTS WAS
ONLY ONE RECOMMENDATION AMONG 12
RECOMMENDATIONS.
AND THAT'S A SHAME THAT THE ONLY
RECOMMENDATION WHICH HAS BEE
ADOPTED TODAY IS A BAN OF BEAUTY
PAGEANTS
>> ANAIS IS CONTINUING T
COMPETE IN PAGEANTS, SHE JUS
DID ANOTHER ONE LAST WEEK.
THE SENATOR'S PROPOSED BAN O
PAGEANTS WILL LIKELY BE VOTED ON
EARLY NEXT YEAR.
ANAIS OBVIOUSLY HOPES TH
MEASURE FAILS.
>> Translator: IT'S OUR PASSION,
SO IF SHE TAKES IT AWAY, WE'RE
GOING TO BE REALLY SAD
TIME NOW FOR BROADWAY AND
PRODUCTION THAT FOCUSES MORE O
THE AUDIENCE THAN WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON THE STAGE
THE GOAL, TO HELP THOSE WITH
AUTISM ENJOY THE SHOW.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT YVETT
FELICIANO REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THIS MIGHT LOOK
LIKE A TYPICAL SATURDAY MATINE
ON BROADWAY, BUT THE FACT THAT
AMBER SCOTTY IS HERE WITH HE
SON, NICK, TELLS YOU IT'
ANYTHING BUT
AND TICKETS FOR THIS PARTICULA
PERFORMANCE WEREN'T AVAILABLE TO
THE GENERAL PUBLIC, THEY WER
ONLY SOLD TO FAMILIES LIKE HERS.
WHY?
BECAUSE THIS PERFORMANCE O
SPIDER-MAN: TURN OFF THE DARK,
WAS ESPECIALLY TAILORED FO
PEOPLE WITH AUTISM
PEOPLE LIKE 10-YEAR-OLD NICK
SCOTTY, WHO OFTEN HAS A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME GOING TO ANY KIND
OF A SHOW.
WHEN YOU'RE ON THE SPECTRUM,
SOME KIDS FLAP THEIR HANDS O
SCREAM
THEM IMPULSES.
WHEN YOU GO TO PLACES, I ALWAY
FEEL LIKE I'M ON GUARD, I HAVE
TO BE LIKE, MY SON HAS AUTISM,
I'M SORRY IF HE DOES SOMETHING
TO BOTHER YOU OR UPSET YOU
BUT I WANT HIM TO BE ABLE TO
ENJOY THIS AS WELL
Y.
>> SHE SAYS HER FAMILY HAS
WALKED OUT OF PERFORMANCES
WASTED HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS
BECAUSE OF DISAPPROVING STARES
AND COMMENTS FROM OTHER AUDIENCE
MEMBERS.
>> NICK WANTED TO SEE SPIDER-MAN
IN THE WORST WAY, AND THAT,
GOT TO TELL YOU IS ONE PLAY
WAS NOT GOING TO GO TAKE HIM TO.
>> THAT'S WHERE THE THEATE
DEVELOPMENT FUND STEPPED IN.
>> THIS IS A WAY OF INSURING A
WARM, WELCOMING ENVIRONMENT,
JUDGMENT FREE SO THAT FAMILIES
CAN COME AND RELAX AND HAVE
GOOD TIME AND NOT WORRY ABOU
HOW THE PERSON ON THE SPECTRUM
IS GOING TO BEHAVE OR WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE MIGHT THINK
>> LISA CARLING IS DIRECTOR OF
ACCESSIBILITY PROGRAMS AT TH
THEATER DEVELOPMENT FUND
THE NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
COORDINATES AUTISM-FRIENDL
PERFORMANCES ON BROADWAY LIK
THESE, FOUR TIMES A YEAR
PBS MISSION IS TO MAKE LIV
THEATER MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
DIVERSE AUDIENCES.
>> WE HOPE TO RAISE AWARENES
ABOUT AUTISM AND HELP PEOPLE
BECOME MORE ACCEPTING AND MORE
INCLUSIVE.
>> HERE ARE SOME OF THE THINGS
YOU'LL SEE AT AN AUTISM-FRIENDLY
SHOW THAT YOU WOULDN'T SEE O
BROADWAY OTHERWISE
USHERS HAVE ABOUT 30 EXTRA
HELPERS ON HAND.
THEY HAND OUT COLORFUL STRES
RELIEVERS AND KUSH BALLS CALLE
MANIPULATIVE, TO HELP AUTISTIC
AUDIENCE MEMBERS RELAX
PRODUCERS AND DIRECTORS WORK
WITH AUTISM SPECIALISTS TO MAK
THE AUTISM-FRIENDLY SHOWS AS
CLOSE TO THE REGULAR SHOWS A
POSSIBLE
BUT THIS AUDIENCE IS ESPECIALL
SENSITIVE TO JARRING LIGHTS AN
SOUNDS
SO AUDIO LEVELS ARE REDUCED BY
ABOUT 20%, AND STROBE LIGHTS ARE
COMPLETELY ELIMINATED.
YET, ORGANIZERS SAY IT'S WHAT'
HAPPENING OFF-STAGE THAT TRULY
MAKES THIS BROADWAY PERFORMANC
UNIQUE
>> WE HAVE CHILDREN AND ADULTS
WITH AUTISM AT THE SHOW.
SO IF THEY NEED A BREAK, THE
HAVE A SPACE THAT THEY CAN COM
TO
>> THE USUALLY EMPTY LOBBIES ARE
TRANSFORMED INTO ACTIVIT
SPACES
WITH BEAN BAGS AND TOYS, FOR
FAMILIES WHO NEED A BREAK FROM
THE SENSORY OVERLOAD
AND IF ANYONE NEEDS A BIGGER
BREAK, SOME SECTIONS ARE
DESIGNATED TO BE COMPLETEL
SILENT
>> I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH KIDS
WITH AUTISM FOR TEN YEARS AN
I'VE NEVER SEEN SO MANY OF THE
OPENLY ABLE TO ENJOY SOMETHING
THAT WE REALLY TAKE FOR GRANTE
ON A DAILY BASIS
>> FOR WEEKS BEFORE THIS SPECIAL
PERFORMANCE, THE THEATER
DEVELOPMENT FUND WAS ALREADY
HELPING NICK SCOTTY EASE INT
THE NEW EXPERIENCE
BY MAKING CUSTOMIZABLE SOCIA
STORIES AVAILABLE ON ITS
WEBSITE.
>> HERE'S THE LOBBY.
SO WE WALK OR DO WE RUN, WHAT DO
WE DO?
>> WALK.
>> WE'RE GOING TO WALK, RIGHT.
>> EVEN WITH THE CHANGES TO TH
SHOW, NICK HAD A HARD TIME
GETTING THROUGH THE FIRST ACT.
BUT HE WAS ALLOWED TO LEAVE TH
THEATER AS MUCH AS HE NEEDED TO.
>> IS IT DIFFERENT THAN OTHE
TIMES?
>> IT'S DEFINITELY DIFFERENT
IF YOU WERE IN A REGULAR PLAY,
YOU WOULD BE KICKED OUT BY NOW
SO EVERYONE HERE IS GREAT.
ALL THE VOLUNTEERS HAVE BEEN
GREAT WITH MY KIDS, SOY COULDN'T
ASK FOR A BETTER DAY
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY."
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, YOU MIGHT
BE LOOKING AHEAD TO THE NF
PLAYOFFS OR THE WINTER OLYMPICS.
BUT MUCH OF THE REST OF TH
WORLD IS ALREADY FOCUSING ON
NEXT SUMMER'S WORLD CUP IN
BRAZIL
GETTING ALL THE STADIUMS READY
FOR PLAY REQUIRES A MASSIV
EFFORT
AND IT HAS NOT GONE SMOOTHLY
NINA NANA OF ITV NEWS REPORTS.
>> IT WAS ALREADY A SCENE OF
FRANTIC ACTIVITY, HUNDREDS O
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS REPORTEDL
DOING 20-HOUR DAYS TO GET TH
STADIUM FINISHED IN TIME
THE 22-YEAR-OLD WORKER WHO DIE
FELL MORE THAN 100 FEET FROM THE
ROOF AFTER A CABLE BROKE
HE DIED IN HOSPITAL.
THE 42,000-SEAT STADIUM IN THE
AMAZON JUNGLE IS WEEKS BEHIN
SCHEDULE
IT'S HERE IN SIX MONTHS WHER
ENGLAND WI MAIL THEIR OPENIN
MATCH OF THE WORLD CUP AND THE
LATEST DEATH WILL INCREASE
SAFETY FEARS AS BRAZIL RACES T
COMPLETE THE WORLD CUP VENUES.
JUST LAST MONTH A CRAN
COLLAPSED KILLING TWO PEOPLE A
THE STADIUM WHERE THE OPENIN
CEREMONY WILL BE HELD.
SHORTLY AFTER THE DEATH, THE
PRESIDENT OF FOOTBALL'S WORL
GOVERNING BODY GAVE ASSURANCES
THAT BRAZIL WOULD BE READY I
TIME
>> CONCERNING THE DAMAGE WHICH
HAS BEEN MADE THERE, IT WILL B
RECONSTRUCTED, RENOVATED AND THE
STADIUM WILL BE READY.
>> BUT IN THE FACE OF HUGE
PUBLIC ANGER OVER THE COST THERE
ARE STILL A NUMBER OF STADIU
THAT ARE NOT READY
FIVE PEOPLE HAVE DIED OVER THE
PAST TWO YEARS AS BRAZIL
PREPARES TO WELCOME THE WORLD,
DELAYS, PROTEST AND TRAGED
CONTINUE TO DOMINATE THE RUN-U
TO FOOTBALL'S GREATEST
SHOWPIECE.
ITV NEWS
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
A SPECIAL FEATURE, FLYIN
COACH -- SOMETIMES THE MOS
POWERFUL STORIES ARE SITTING
RIGHT NEXT TO YOU.
>> MY GRAND FATHER SAW THAT SUCH
A POWERFUL MOMENT IN HISTORY
HE WANTED TO HAVE HIS FAMILY
CARRY A NAME THAT REFERRED TO
NEW DAWN
AND SO THE FIRST BORN IN THE
FAMILY RECEIVED THE NAME
ORMANDI.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M JOHN LARSEN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.